# ORCA Automated Building and Testing
--------------------------------------------------

This directory contains the
Makefile which starts the automated build/testing process, and is the location
where all the test builds are located when the test scripts are run.  The test
scripts are located in the `GIT_TOP/scripts/` submodule.

## Makefile --------------------------------------------------

To run the whole test process with the default build configurations, run `make
builds`. Note that you need to do the appropriate environment setup for the
specific FPGA families your targeting.

To build for Altera targets, run: `ncsh latest full`

For Xilinx targets, run: `source /nfs/opt/xilinx/Vivado/latest/settings64.sh`
`export XILINXD_LICENSE_FILE=2100@vax`

For Microsemi targets, run: `source /nfs/opt/microsemi/Libero.sh`

## ORCA Build Configuration --------------------------------------------------

The ORCA builds are initialized through the use of a Python script; by default
`build_cfg_orca.py` in `GIT_TOP/test/` is used.  This can be overriden in the
Makefile by either declaring the `CFG_FILE` variable to something different on
the command line (e.g. `CFG_FILE=../../test/build_cfg_custom.py make`) or by
declaring the `CFG_FILE` variable inside `GIT_TOP/test/test_config.mk`.

In this file, there is a variable `ORCA_BUILDS` that contains each of the builds
that will be run by the test scripts. This variable is an array of build
configurations, each of which is generated by a family specific Python function
of the form `<family>_<architecture>_BuildCfg()`. These build configurations
contain all of the ORCA hdl parameters for the test. To test across multiple
different ORCA parameters, different build configurations with different
parameters should be put in the array.

For the Xilinx and Microsemi builds, there needs to be a UART configuration
variable for the scripts to communicate with ORCA over UART. This is given in
the `ZEDBOARD_UART_CFG` and `M2S150_UART_CFG` variables, respectively.

More than one family of architectures can exist in the same `ORCA_BUILDS` array,
however, the builds in the array will only be run if the required family flag is
passed to the build scripts.

This array is used in build.py, which is the top level build script.

## Script Parameters --------------------------------------------------

To learn about the details of the parameters of the build scripts, run `python
build.py -h`.

The build scripts will run all builds for in the `ORCA_BUILDS` array.

## build_orca Functions --------------------------------------------------

There are 5 main steps in the `build_orca` functions:

1) Generate the software build directories 2) Set up the build 3) Compile and
running the build 4) Check the test logs 5) Email the results

### Software Build Directories
--------------------------------------------------

The software build directories are generated using by using a glob-style
accumulation of each folder in the software directories. It also includes the
riscv-tests/isa directory directly, since it has a unique test directory
structure. This is because they are copied over from the riscv isa tests
repository. Each class of tests has an associated build directory which includes
the Makefile. Within each build directory, there is a directory for each
individual test which holds the test code as well as a Makefrag that contains
some test specific build information. When the scripts compile the software, a
binary is generated for each test subdirectory of each software build directory.

### Build Setup --------------------------------------------------

The next step is to set up the build. This sets up the directory structure for
the current build, and copies over the required software directory. The top
level directory name contains the hash of the current git commit (plus `_mods`
is tacked to the end if there are local modifications), and the next directory
name contains the build configuration information (the hdl parameters selected
for the build). For example, for:

`20170809_133415_b27af1a980617eac3e61d1b3b736674c16f5d626_mods/de2-115_me1_de1_ps5_lve0_int1_1_po0_ce0`

The first directory contains the build date/time, then then git commit hash
(plus the `_mods` at the end to signify that there are local modifications). The
second directory contains the build platform (`de2-115`), and the hdl
parameters.  `me1` corresponds to `MULTIPLY_ENABLE=1`, `int1_1` corresponds to
`ENABLE_EXT_INTERRUPTS=1`, and `NUM_EXT_INTERRUPTS=1`, etc.

The build setup is device-specific; each FPGA family requires different files to
be present in the build directory to build the system. In addition, the hdl
parameters are modified in this step to match the required build parameters. For
example, if you set `ICACHE_SIZE=8192` in `build_cfg_orca.py`, then in this step
the ORCA hdl parameter `ICACHE_SIZE` will be set to `8192` for this build.

In the set up step, the riscv tests are also modified slightly to work with the
automated build scripts. To do this, the Makefile is modified slightly to use
the ORCA linker script, and to include the common ORCA utility files for the
family-specific functions like `printf()`. The pass/fail clause of each test is
also modified to write over the UART rather than writing a value to a
register. This allows the ORCA to communicate to the scripts whether the test
passed or failed. The `test_pass` and `test_fail` functions (located in
`GIT_TOP/test/software/common/test_passfail.c`) contain a specific statement
that will be logged by the scripts. This log will be later parsed in order to
determine whether the test was successful or not. These functions also output
ASCII 0x4 (Cx-d) to the host terminal in order to exit when the test is
completed. This remote exit functionality is natively built into nios2-terminal,
and the miniterm scripts used for the xilinx build have been modified to also
perform this remote exit. The UART output from `test_pass` and `test_fail` is
run in an infinite loop after the test is complete in case the host terminal
missed it the first time.

As of right now, there are unit tests included in the build, however, they have
not yet been modified to use the `test_pass` and `test_fail` functions, so they
will fail every time regardless of outcome. In addition, the tests are not
making full use of the test scripts functionality; it would also be possible to
put the number of test errors over UART, and the scripts would parse that and
include it in the results table. For now, when the riscv isa tests fail
explicitly, they fail with one error.

The final step in the build setup is to create the compile script. The script
essentially calls the Makefile to build the hardware, then calls `make` for each
software test. The software test elf is then copied into a separate directory,
in which the compile logs, test logs, and timing logs are stored. The test elf
is not copied if it already exists, as this would cause the test to be re-run
unneccesarily. If not run locally (`-l` is not passed to the test scripts), then
the scripts use GridEngine instead for compilation.

### Compilation & Test Running
--------------------------------------------------

Next, the scripts compile all the pending builds by executing the relevant
compile scripts. Once they are compiled, the output logs for the hardware and
software builds are parsed, and the compile warnings and errors are stored for
later. Once everything has been compiled, the software tests for each build are
run sequentially on the target device. This process is specific to the target
FPGA family.

For Altera, the .sof bitstream file that was generated for the current build is
flashed to the device over JTAG.  The build scripts will automatically call
`jtagd` and connect to the target FPGA on their own. However, if something goes
wrong, the scripts will stall and wait for user input before continuing. Each
test elf file is then converted to a raw binary file. The script then runs
`orca_pgm.py` found in the `GIT_TOP/tools/` directory, which holds the ORCA in
reset, writes each byte in the .bin file to its corresponding address in the
ORCA's instruction ram, then releases the ORCA from reset. The scripts then run
nios-2 terminal with a given timeout period. If the test puts ASCII 0x4 over
UART, nios2-terminal exits. The output over UART is logged, it will be parsed
later to determine if the test passed or failed. This process continues as the
scripts iterate over the entire test list.

For Xilinx, the .bit bitstream file that was generated is flashed over JTAG to
the fabric using the Xilinx hardware manager. Ideally, the XSDB tool *should* be
able to also write from the PS to the PL through an AXI bus, but the tool
currently doesn't allow it. It may be a permissions issue, or it may be a
configuration issue; it's not clear. One thing I found was that there is a
`user_init` function referenced in some of the Xilinx forum posts, however, it
is not located anywhere in the `ps7_init.tcl` that gets generated by the Xilinx
SDK tools.  The programming option that ended up working was the JTAG Master
block in the block design. A memory initialization script is generated by the
`orca_pgm.py` script, which is then executed by the Vivado hardware
manager. This generated script prepares a sequence of write transactions based
on an input binary file in order to initialize memory. With this JTAG Master,
theoretically any device accessible over an AXI bus can be written to / read
from. However, anything other than the memory-mapped reset and the IDRAM has not
yet been tested.

As each software test is run, the terminal output is logged to be parsed later.

### Checking Test Logs --------------------------------------------------

After the tests are finished running, each test log is parsed to prepare the
test results. The scripts check whether the tests passed, and the runtime of the
test. Currently the test runtime feature seems to be bugged, but it shouldn't be
too difficult to fix. For the riscv isa tests, it is expected that many of them
fail, as we do not implement a large portion of the instruction set. Currently,
certain isa tests fail in the automated test process that shouldn't. Further
investigation is required.

### Emailing the Results --------------------------------------------------

In the final step of the test scripts, the parsed log data is formatted into an
html table and emailed to each person in the notify list, as well as your own
email if it is registered with git. The table contains all of the hardware build
warnings, hardware critical warnings, hardware errors, software warnings,
software errors, and test errors that were parsed from the compile/test logs
during the build/test process.
